added guide for HA monitoring setup in K8s via VM Cluster (#1523)
VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics: docs/guides/k8s-ha-monitoring-via-vm-cluster.md

**The guide covers:**

* High availability monitoring via [VictoriaMetrics cluster](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/Cluster-VictoriaMetrics.html) in [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) with Helm charts
* How to store metrics 
* How to scrape metrics from k8s components using a service discovery 
* How to visualize stored data 

> * How to store metrics in the [VictoriaMetrics](https://victoriametrics.com) TSDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How to store metrics in [VictoriaMetrics](https://victoriametrics.com)
```

**Preconditions**

> * [Kubernetes cluster 1.19.12-gke.2100](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine). We use the GKE cluster from [GCP](https://cloud.google.com/) but this guide also applies to any Kubernetes cluster. For example, [Amazon EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/ru/eks/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Kubernetes cluster 1.19.12-gke.2100](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine). We use GKE cluster from [GCP](https://cloud.google.com/) but this guide also applies to any Kubernetes cluster. For example, [Amazon EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/ru/eks/).
```

* [Helm 3 ](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install)
* [kubectl 1.21](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl)
* [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) tool

## 1. VictoriaMetrics Helm repository

> Please see the relevant [VictoriaMetrics Helm repository](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/guides/k8s-monitoring-via-vm-cluster.html#1-victoriametrics-helm-repository) section found in previous guides. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please see the relevant [VictoriaMetrics Helm repository](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/guides/k8s-monitoring-via-vm-cluster.html#1-victoriametrics-helm-repository) section in previous guides. 
```

## 2. Install VictoriaMetrics Cluster from the Helm chart

> Execute the following command in your terminal:

Reviewer: saying "your" isn't necessary

```
</div>

> * The `Helm install vmcluster vm/victoria-metrics-cluster` command installs the [VictoriaMetrics cluster](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/Cluster-VictoriaMetrics.html) to the default [namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/) inside the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `Helm install vmcluster vm/victoria-metrics-cluster` command installs [VictoriaMetrics cluster](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/Cluster-VictoriaMetrics.html) to the default [namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/).
```

* `dedup.minScrapeInterval: 1ms` configures [de-deplication](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/#deduplication) for the cluster that de-duplicates data points in the same time series if they fall within the same discrete 1s bucket. The earliest data point will be kept. In the case of equal timestamps, an arbitrary data point will be kept.

> * `replicationFactor: 2` Replication factor for the ingested data, i.e. how many copies should be madeamong distinct `-storageNode` instances. If the replication factor is greater than one, the deduplication must be enabled on theremote storage side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `replicationFactor: 2` Replication factor for the ingested data, i.e. how many copies should be made among distinct `-storageNode` instances. If the replication factor is greater than one, the deduplication must be enabled on the remote storage side.
```

* `podAnnotations: prometheus.io/scrape: "true"` enables the scraping of metrics from the vmselect, vminsert and vmstorage pods.

> * `podAnnotations:prometheus.io/port: "some_port" ` enables the scraping of metrics from the vmselect, vminsert and vmstorage pods and from their ports as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `podAnnotations:prometheus.io/port: "some_port" ` enables the scraping of metrics from the vmselect, vminsert and vmstorage pods from corresponding ports.
```

NOTES:
Write API:

> The VictoriaMetrics write api can be accessed via port 8480 with the following DNS name from within your cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The VictoriaMetrics write api can be accessed via port 8480 via the following DNS name from within your cluster:
```

      - url: "http://vmcluster-victoria-metrics-cluster-vminsert.default.svc.cluster.local:8480/insert/0/prometheus/"
Read API:

> The VictoriaMetrics read api can be accessed via port 8481 with the following DNS name from within your cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The VictoriaMetrics read api can be accessed via port 8481 via the following DNS name from within your cluster:
```

vmcluster-victoria-metrics-cluster-vmselect.default.svc.cluster.local

Get the VictoriaMetrics select service URL by running these commands in the same shell:
  export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace default -l "app=vmselect" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
  kubectl --namespace default port-forward $POD_NAME 8481

> You need to specify select service URL into your Grafana:

Reviewer: can we remove it? So it won't collide with info below

 NOTE: you need to use the Prometheus Data Source

> Input this URL field into Grafana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following URL for configuring datasource (use Prometheus type) in Grafana:
```

```

> Verify that the VictoriaMetrics cluster pods are up and running by executing the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that all VictoriaMetrics services are up and running by executing the following command:
```

## 3. Install vmagent from the Helm chart

> To scrape metrics from Kubernetes with a VictoriaMetrics Cluster we will need to install [vmagent](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/vmagent.html) with some additional configurations. To do so, please run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To scrape metrics from Kubernetes with a VictoriaMetrics Cluster we will need to install [vmagent](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/vmagent.html) with some additional configuration. To do so, please run the following command:
```

```

* `remoteWriteUrls: - http://vmcluster-victoria-metrics-cluster-vminsert.default.svc.cluster.local:8480/insert/0/prometheus/` configures `vmagent` to write scraped metrics to the `vmselect service`.

> * The `metric_ralabel_configs` section allows you to process Kubernetes metrics for the Grafana dashboard.

Reviewer: there is no sense in saying "you" or "your" unless it is really needed. It sounds a bit rude

## 4. Verifying HA of VictoraMetrics Cluster

> Run this command to check that the Victoria Metrics Cluster and `vmagent` are up and running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to check that VictoriaMetrics services are up and running:
```

vmcluster-victoria-metrics-cluster-vmstorage-2                 1/1     Running   0          34s
```

> To verify that metrics are present in the VictoriaMetrics TSDB you can send a curl request to the `vmselect` service from kubernetes or you may setup Grafana and check it via the web interface. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that metrics are present in the VictoriaMetrics send a curl request to the `vmselect` service from kubernetes or setup Grafana and check it via the web interface. 
```

* Argument `query=count(up{kubernetes_pod_name=~".*vmselect.*"})` specifies the query we want to execute. Specifically, we calculate the number of `vmselect` pods.
* Additional arguments `start=-10m&step=1m'` set requested time range from -10 minutes (10 minutes ago) to now (default value if `end` argument is omitted) and step (the distance between returned data points) of 1 minute;
* By adding `| jq` we pass the output to the jq utility which outputs information in json format 

The expected result of the query `count(up{kubernetes_pod_name=~".*vmselect.*"})` should be equal to `3` - the number of replicas we set via `replicaCount` parameter.

To test via Grafana, we need to install it first. [Install and connect Grafana to VictoriaMetrics](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/guides/k8s-monitoring-via-vm-cluster.html#4-install-and-connect-grafana-to-victoriametrics-with-helm), login into Grafana and open the metrics [Explore](http://127.0.0.1:3000/explore) page.

<p align="center">
  <img src="guide-vmcluster-k8s-ha-explore.png" width="800" alt="grafana explore">
</p>

> Choose `victoriametrics` as the datasource and enter `count(up{kubernetes_pod_name=~".*vmselect.*"})` to the **Metric browser** field as shown on the screenshot, then press **Run query** button:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose `victoriametrics` from the list of datasources and enter `count(up{kubernetes_pod_name=~".*vmselect.*"})` to the **Metric browser** field as shown on the screenshot, then press **Run query** button:
```

vmcluster-victoria-metrics-cluster-vmstorage-1                 1/1     Running   0          43m
```

Return to Grafana Explore and press the  **Run query** button again.

The expected output is:

<p align="center">
  <img src="guide-vmcluster-k8s-ha-explore-count-up-graph.png" width="800" alt="">
</p>

> As you can see, after we scaled down the `vmstorage` replicas number from three to two pods, the metrics are still available and correct. The response is not partial as it was before scaling. Also we see that query `count(up{kubernetes_pod_name=~".*vmselect.*"})` returns the same value as before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, after we scaled down the `vmstorage` replicas number from three to two pods, metrics are still available and correct. The response is not partial as it was before scaling. Also we see that query `count(up{kubernetes_pod_name=~".*vmselect.*"})` returns the same value as before.
```
